[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: I've spent a lot of time
working on getting this stuff working, and
now we finally have a really,
really great solution.
Which I'm going to show you and
then let you wrestle with it a little bit.
So the first important part
is this plugin with babel.
So one of my favorite parts about
babel is the fact that it's pluggable.
And I'm pretty sure a typescript
to it also is pluggable, I think.
And so that was one of the last
things about typescript for
me that I wanted was,
I needed it to be pluggable.
But what this babel plugin does,
actually I should stop and just ask,
how many people are familiar and
use babel?
Okay, so it's transpiling our
es6 with these other presets and
stuff, all the presets are doing
are loading in plugins for us.
And so this es2015 preset
has a big list of plugins
that consists of all of the various
features of es6, or es2015.
And so then those plugins will say okay,
I found this part of
the code that is a class.
I'm going to transpile it down to
prototypes and whatever needs to
happen to make that work in es20 or
es5, so various things like that.
And so, you're not limited to
just ECMA script features though,
you can do anything with the code.
That was a big change with babel 6 that
everybody was both excited about and
hated, was that now babel is just this
platform of pluggable awesomeness.
But it enabled stuff like coverage.
So what this babel plugin does is it
just adds those coverage lines all
over the code.
And it adds it to
the variable that just so
happens to be cut like a pseudo
standard for coverage.
So the karma-coverage plugin
can take that variable,
when all the tests have been run,
it says okay, give me that variable, and
I'm gonna use that to generate the report.
I'm seeing some head nods.
Does anybody have questions
about what's going on?
Okay, sweet, so it's basically doing just
what I was doing with that underscore
underscore coverage mess,
but it's doing it in
a generated fashion, so we don't have
to do it ourselves, which is great.
And that's actually the more common
tool for code coverage, before,
it was a tool called Istanbul.
And it didn't work with es6, and so
they were like Esparta was
really popular for a long time.
And then that is no longer maintained, and
now underscore underscore
coverage is great.
If you're doing stuff in Node,
you should look into a package called NYC.
It is now kind of been
merged with Istanbul, and
it supports es6 with a babel plugin,
a different one, and it's great.
And if you wanna learn more about that,
I'm gonna talk about it tomorrow at my
open source workshop, so fun stuff.
Okay, great,
then once you have these things installed,
they both need to be configured.
And configuration is the name
of the game with all this stuff.
It's our favorite part of everything,
right?
So the first thing in our babelrc,
we're doing this fancy thing right here.
The most important piece of this here,
actually I'm gonna go into our babelrc in
here, so I have a little bit more freedom.
So if we wanted to add a plugin to this
babelrc, we would add a plugins array.
And in here, it's just an array
of the names of the plugins, so
coverage would be the name of that babel
plugin that we have in our package json.
So it's babel-plugin-name.
And so the problem that we
have with this specific
scenario is, now we're instrumenting
our code for coverage,
even when we ship it to production.
Not a really good idea,
your app performance will be terrible.
It should still work, everything will
still work, but it will be very slow.
So what we're going to do instead is
we only want this particular plugin
to be available in some type of
environment, that environment is test.
And so babel has this ability to
specify a certain configuration
when only something like specific
environment requirements are met.
And you do that in the env property or
object.
And as a property of that,
it's the value of the environment.
So, in our case,
we're gonna just call it test arbitrarily.
And that's where we put
the configuration for that test.
And I'll show you here in a second
how to set up the environment to be
equal to test.
But that's the important part,
or the important piece of this,
is that the environment, or you only
want this plugin set in a particular
environment, and we're gonna arbitrarily
call that an environment test.
Do I have any questions about that?
Okay, anything from online or?
Okay, so let's go ahead,
and we'll set up our
environment to be test.
And then we'll run our tests, and
we should see coverage from that.
So if you want to follow along,
this would be a good place to start.
And if you want to just watch and
consume, then that's great too.
I will give you an opportunity
to actually start implementing
this stuff once we get some
code coverage going here.
So the other thing that we're gonna need,
well, let's see, I'll just show
you how to set up the environment and then
you all can do the rest of this stuff.
So there are two ways that you can trigger
babel to have a specific environment.
Or to utilize a specific environment, and
that is through the environment variable,
NODE_ENV or BABEL_ENV.
So you set that just as
an environment variable, and
if you're familiar on the command line,
we could say, NODE_ENV=test.
This is Unix only, if you're on Windows,
then you have to kind of do
things a little bit differently.
But then we could say webpack, and
that would run our webpack config with
the node environment as test and
then babel would instrument our code.
Of course, we don't wanna do that.
We only wanna do it for our tests.
And the handy thing that we can do is
we could actually set it in JavaScript
in our karma-config.
So right here, we'll say process.env and
we'll use BABEL_ENV, but
NODE_ENV would work as well.
There are tradeoffs for
doing it one way or another, and
I can answer some of these questions
if you wanna know what those would be.
But we'll just say the BABEL_ENV is test.
And that corresponds to
this env right there.
So by doing that, then when babel kicks
in to transpile our code, it's gonna say
okay, here are all the presets,
let me go load all of their plugins.
The environment is test, so
I'm gonna take this test object and
merge it with the default plugins as well.
I'm seeing some nods.
Any questions about that?
Okay, so the rest of this stuff is
a little bit on the boiler platey side,
so I will show you how to cheat.
But what I want is for you to actually run
this yourself and see the output yourself,
so you can go to, on my slides,
kcd.im/webpack-workshop,
so if you're not on my slides,
that's where it is.
And then go to the coverage exercise
slide, here actually, well yeah.
I can copy this into the chat actually,
just really quick.
So yeah, go to those slides.
And then click on this
link to get the diff.
And you can even just pop this
up in view and copy that.
And I want you to actually run this and
get the coverage yourself though.
Yeah, or you can just look at it and
type it out yourself.
And while you're doing that, I'll explain
what the purpose of this stuff is.
So first of all, we have these reporters,
so karma has this concept of reporters,
where in the terminal,
if you specify the progress reporter,
it's gonna show you, we only have 1 test,
so what happens likely going to split.
But if you have 600 tests, you'll see in
the terminal these tests running, and
that's the progress reporter.
We also want to get code coverage in our
terminal, so when our tests are all done,
it will spit out what
the code coverage looks like.
And we want it in general
es files as well.
And so that's where we specify
the coverage reporter.
And that coverage reporter
actually corresponds to
this karma-coverage
plugin that we're using.
And then we configure that this way.
So the coverage plugin knows to
look in the karma configuration for
the coverage reporter to get its config.
And here, it has a reporter's array
that has a bunch of boiler platey
stuff that just says the different
types of reporter sites you want.
There are several different
ways to configure this,
but not super necessary for
you to understand or
as far as webpack is concerned
to understand that bit.
So I'm gonna take us as far as, well,
I'm actually gonna check
out the next branch, and
I'm going to explain to you
why this part is important.
And then we'll go ahead and move on.